rated M for Mature
you
I think the thing I'm proudest of and
the design of reckoning as a whole
there's there's a lot of things the team
has done just an amazing job with from
the moment to moment combat to the
actual architecture and geography of the
world but I'm a real sucker for the
Destiny system the Destiny system came
from a rejection of a very common
convention in RPGs we pick our class at
the beginning of the game he kind of
start out you choose from the get-go
whether you want to be the war the mage
you have to make these huge decisions
upfront before you know what you're
doing like you know I would invest in
strength or do you you're basing that
decision on information you don't have
you're not you're not sure how a rogue
is going to play even if your season RPG
veteran you're not sure how this class
is going to play through the long play
of the game and so we wanted to sort of
revisit that something we'd seen in some
Eastern RPGs or the idea of a job sister
or a title system where you you get a
title for having done certain things to
the game I've always been a huge fan of
title systems I like giving my character
title and it's usually pretty
meaningless sometimes comes with a
couple stats we thought that was cool
but most of the examples that we looked
at they didn't do anything it was purely
just a title that was the original
inspiration and that kind of became more
and more and more to the point that it
kind of replaced the class system I'm
allure up until you are reborn in that
pile of bodies has been a deterministic
world it's been a world governed by fate
and you as a player break this whole
thing down and every everything
everywhere you go everybody you interact
with their all influenced by this
suddenly not being deterministic anymore
these are strange times magic weaves
itself in new patterns and
change your pic abilities from three
different ability trees might finessin
sorcery and based on the distribution of
your abilities in those trees we unlock
for you new destinies and you can apply
to yourself and those destinies are
effectively a class they come with buffs
they come with special abilities kind of
start out your blank slate as you
advance you make decisions that are
going to kind of cast you toward a major
cast you toward a rogue or even the
hybrid there are 40 different destinies
starting with the faithless one and then
of the ones you get after the faithless
one they're divided up into seven
different types and those basically come
down to if I focus on one of the ability
trees like might I'm saying okay put
every single point in that I want to be
a fighter I'm going to be the best
fighter I can be well early in the game
you unlock a destiny called brawler that
gives you some basic benefits to that
style of play if you keep on w points in
the might and nothing else then by the
end of the game you've unlocked higher
and higher tiers of that sort of pure
might play style each of those is in and
of itself a different destiny but the
different ranks of the same style or
type of destiny however if I start
throwing points at other trees like my
mix might sorcery I'm going to unlock
hybrid destiny so I'll get like a mite
sorcery battle mage for instance and
those have different rings in different
ranks sometimes just increase
statistically but every couple of ranks
generally speaking they do something new
I think one of the best examples of that
is blink right if you mix any if you
have any destiny that has mage in it any
sorcery destiny you get blink which is a
replacement for your standard role this
blink is like the Warriors dodge but
instead of moving across the train your
character actually teleports in case
teleports do all sorts of cool things
like teleport through guys but as you
level that destiny up you get there's a
poison blink and there's like a an ice
blink it slows enemies down when you
teleport through them were lured the
high tier Dustin you get for focusing on
that might line he gets an ability
called last stand so that when you die
you can immediately get back up from the
dead you know wiped blood from your face
and get back into the fight and as long
as you killed the enemy that took you
down within a certain window of time you
get your full life back you can keep on
trucking in reckoning you have the
jack-of-all-trades destiny and this
destiny you get for evenly distributing
your points in all the trees now you
don't get the top tier abilities in
those trees but you unlock all of
what the Masters and so if you're the
player that really likes to play with
all of the different weapons and switch
them out all the time this is the death
state for you it also dramatically
reduces your equip requirements so if
you're the guy that likes to run to the
very end of the map as far as you can
and get some loot you can equip them
whereas if you didn't have that destiny
you couldn't when it comes to favor
destiny I'm torn with the might /
sorcery Destiny's that entire type of
Destiny's as a whole those are my
favorites but if I was going to pick
just one destiny it would actually be
the top tier sorcery finesse hybrid
called shadow caster it just gets a
really sweet set of abilities a
shadowcaster destiny actually has a
bonus on it that allows you to steal
mana when you crit combines where the
Frog does which is crit a lot with what
mage does which is cast spells and be
something of a glass cannon so there are
a lot of things like that in the destiny
system that kind of change your moment
to moment instead of just bumping your
stats twists of fate or something of
addendum to the Destiny system they are
the modifiers that result from making
decisions in the world we wanted a way
to let the player know that he or she is
changing the world in a permanent way
through through their actions their
rewards you get for completing quests or
doing different things in the game you
make a a revocable decision that's
changing the future in some way
something that normal people couldn't
have done that only you can because
you're the faithless one we give you a
card which is presented a lot like a
destiny card called the twist of fate
and those things tell you who changed
the history of the world in such and
such a way and because that you get a
permanent boost to your stats that's
appropriate to whatever that decision
was often times they come in a couple
flavors and so it's a way that we reward
the player differently for the choices
that they made I choose to help these
people I don't choose to help these
people I made this factions future
change this way or that way not both so
both the bonuses and the twist
themselves are exclusive in that case a
seat in the House of dollars cannot
remain empty less the great stories end
we want you to be able to play the game
that you
play I'm hoping players come to
reckoning and experience the nostalgia
factor the thing that first hooked them
on games I think this game is one that
could really do that I want players to
feel like they got to experience a world
had never seen before and that they want
more I want them to leave and go what
else is happening in avila because you
know we're doing more in that world we
want them to see that there's so much
depth and there's so much personality
and character that there are endless
possibilities for products I want them
to be excited about what happens five
years later 20 years later 2000 years
later so I I'm excited to get them into
the world and just kind of experiencing
everything that we've built
you